Question-1
Compiler:->
1. Compiler translate the whole program at once (java code to machine code. 
2. Debugging is difficult and slow. 
3. Execution time is very less.
Interpreter:->
1. Interpreter translate the program at line by line (java code to machine code. 
2. Debugging is easy. 
3. Execution time is more.

Question-2
It converts byte code to the machine language.
JVM provides basic java functions like memory management, security, garbage collection, etc.
Runs the program by utilizing JRE’s libraries and files.
JVM is an integral part of JRE.
It can execute the java program line by line. Therefore, it is also known as an interpreter.
The main functions of JVM include loading, linking, initializing, and compiling the program.

JRE consists of a set of tools to help the JVM run. In addition, it includes a few deployment tools such as Java Plug-in and Java Web Start.
A User can efficiently run a java code with JRE only. However, JRE doesn’t allow writing the program.
JRE appends various integration libraries like the JDBC (Java Database Connectivity), JNDI (Java Naming and Directory Interface), RMI (Remote Method Invocation), etc.
Along with JVM, it consists of a virtual machine client for Java HotSpot.

JDK provides an environment for developing and executing the Java source code.
It includes all the functionalities of JRE and JVM.
JDK helps developers to handle the exceptions using multiple extensions in a single catch block.
It has various other development tools like the debugger, compiler, etc.
It is platform-dependent. Moreover, users can easily install JDK on Operating systems like Unix, Mac, Windows, etc.

Question-3
The JVM divides its memory into two main categories: heap memory and non-heap memory.

Question-4
The Just-In-Time (JIT) compiler is a component of the runtime environment that improves the performance of Java™ applications by compiling bytecodes to native machine code at run time.

Question-5

Private: The access level of a private modifier is only within the class. It cannot be accessed from outside the class.
Default: The access level of a default modifier is only within the package. It cannot be accessed from outside the package. If you do not specify any access level, it will be the default.
Protected: The access level of a protected modifier is within the package and outside the package through child class. If you do not make the child class, it cannot be accessed from outside the package.
Public: The access level of a public modifier is everywhere. It can be accessed from within the class, outside the class, within the package and outside the package.

Question-6
In Java, a compiler converts the complete source code into machine-code files or any intermediary code, which is subsequently executed.

Question-7
There are three types of variables in Java:
local variable
instance variable
static variable

1) Local Variable
A variable declared inside the body of the method is called local variable. You can use this variable only within that method and the other methods in the class aren't even aware that the variable exists.

A local variable cannot be defined with "static" keyword.

2) Instance Variable
A variable declared inside the class but outside the body of the method, is called an instance variable. It is not declared as static.

It is called an instance variable because its value is instance-specific and is not shared among instances.

3) Static variable
A variable that is declared as static is called a static variable. It cannot be local. You can create a single copy of the static variable and share it among all the instances of the class. Memory allocation for static variables happens only once when the class is loaded in the memory.


Question-8

Data types in Java are of different sizes and values that can be stored in the variable that is made as per convenience and circumstances to cover up all test cases. Java has two categories in which data types are segregated 

Primitive Data Type: such as boolean, char, int, short, byte, long, float, and double
Non-Primitive Data Type or Object Data type: such as String, Array, etc.

Question-9
An identifier is used for any variable, function, data definition, labels in your program etc.

Question-10

A specification where working of Java Virtual Machine is specified. But implementation provider is independent to choose the algorithm. Its implementation has been provided by Oracle and other companies.


















